[MUSIC]
We have designed an algorithm for
the general knapsack problem.
We have proved that it
runs in polynomial time.
Now, it remains to do what will
be the climax of this chapter
technically speaking.
Proving that it has a good
approximation ratio.
So in this section, we will do an analysis
of the approximation ratio of our
algorithm for knapsack.
First, we need a little bit of notation.
Our output set of items.
Let's call it S.
Here's S.
What do we know about S?
We know that S is optimal for
the scaled rounded input.
It's a solution that was given us
from solving the dynamic problem.
Second notation,
S* The optimal set of items for
the original input.
Since we know that scaling does not
change a structure of optimal solutions,
well, S* is also optimal for
the scaled unrounded inputs.
So we now need to relate the value of S,
which is optimal for
scaled rounded inputs to the value
of S* which is optimal for
scaled unrounded inputs.
First, we have done a reduction, so
we really have two values to worry about.
The value of S for the original input And
the value of S for the modified inputs.
Let us relate these two values.
The value of S.
Sum of VI over S.
Scale multiply by alpha divided by alpha.
Sum over S over scaled inputs.
Round.
When you round you round
down to the nearest integer.
And so, alpha vi is greater then or
equal to v prime i.
And so, the value of s is at least 1
over alpha times the sum of v prime i.
That is the value of s for
the scale rounded input.
Next, we now look at
the modified input and
on that input let us relate
the value of s to r.
What do we know about that value
of S on the modified input?
We know that s is optimal so
it's value is maximum possible.
So it's value is at least as good as
the value of S* on the modified input.
This we can write as
Sum of e prime i over s
is greater than the recall of
the sum of e prime i over S*.
S, S*, S, S*.
Now what do we do?
Now we have managed to go from S to S*,
but
what we have is not the value of S* on the
original input, but on the modified input.
So we need to go back
to the original input.
We went from S on the original
input to S on the modified input.
From there to S star on
the modified input and
we need to go back up to S
star on the original input.
All right, so how did the rounding work?
We rounded down to the nearest integer.
So the rounded value is
less than the scale value,
but by one at most.
Nearest integer is at most one away.
So when we sum, the effect of
rounding is the sum of the v prime is
are at least Alpha times the sum of vis
minus one minus one minus one minus one.
Five of S star times,
that is at worst n times.
And what do we see appearing here?
We see Sum of over S* of Vi.
What is this?
OPT.
We have OPT appear.
So now, we can combine everything,
substitute.
Value of S is at least 1 over
the sum of V times prime i.
Which is at least one of the [INAUDIBLE].
Which is at least [INAUDIBLE] vi minus n.
Which is at least [INAUDIBLE] is one.
So that's at least out minus n over alpha.
Substitute the value of alpha.
This is at least up minus n
times max v over capital n.
We have found an additive error
of n times max v over capital n.
All right, now we have an additive error
which is often what we'd find when
we study approximation algorithms.
We need to work on this to prove something
about the relative error of our solution.
So, we need to work on this term and
somehow, make up the peer.
For this,
we will use another lower bound OPT.
How do we lower bound OPT?
Now, we go back to the preprocessing.
We had that little step that I
didn't really say much about.
These can't be items that
don't fit in a knapsack.
We can infer something from that.
We discarded the items
whose sizes were too big.
So all the remaining items,
if we take them alone,
they fit in a knapsack and so
every vi Alone would fit and so
we know that OPT is at least
the maximum of all of them.
Now we could substitute OPT for
max of vi and
we get the value of S is
at least OPT minus little n
over capital N times OPT Finally,
remember what is capital N?
One hundred capital N?
We haven't used this yet, it's time.
Substitute, and what do you get?
The value of S is at
this point .99 times OPT.
99 percent times OPT.
We have a one percent error.
We're almost optimal.
What we have proved is our algorithm gives
us a solution to the knapsack problem
that can be computed in polynomial time.
And whose value is at least
99% of the optimal value.
Excellent.
Excellent but we are not quite done yet.
In the next and final section we will
extend this to design an approximation
scheme for the knapsack problem.